# 40-F — BROOKFIELD Corp /ON/

**Filed:** 2018-04-02
**Period:** 2017-12-31
**Accession:** 0001001085-18-000013
**SEC URL:** https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1001085/000100108518000013/a2017-40xfcover.htm

---
#### U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

#### Washington, D.C. 20549

#### FORM 40-F
(Check One)

| ¨ | Registration statement pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 |

#### or
| x | Annual report pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 |

#### For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017

#### Commission file number 033-97038

### BROOKFIELD ASSET MANAGEMENT INC.
| Ontario, Canada                    |     | (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 1121, 1031, 1061, 1311, 1321, 2421, 4939, 6311         |     | Not applicable            |
| (Province or other jurisdiction of 
 incorporation or organization)     |     | -Primary Standard Industrial                           
 Classification Code Number (if                         
 applicable)                                            |     | -I.R.S. Employer          
 Identification Number (if 
 Applicable)               |

<div align='center'>**Suite 300, Brookfield Place, 181 Bay Street, P.O. Box 762, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5J 2T3

(416) 363-9491

(Address and Telephone Number of Registrant’s Principal Executive Offices)

Torys LLP, 1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036-7703

(212) 880-6000

(Name, Address (Including Zip Code) and Telephone Number

(Including Area Code) of Agent For Service in the United States)**</div>

Securities registered or to be registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

| Title of each class           |     | Name of each exchange on which registered |
| Class A Limited Voting Shares |     | New York Stock Exchange                   |

Securities registered or to be registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Securities for which there is a reporting obligation pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Act: None

For annual reports, indicate by check mark the information filed with this Form:

| xAnnual Information Form |     | xAudited Annual Financial Statements |

Indicate the number of outstanding shares of each of the issuer’s classes of capital or common stock as of the close of the period covered by the annual report:

Class A Limited Voting Shares: 958,688,000

Class B Limited Voting Shares 85,120

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports); and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit and post such files). ¨ Yes x No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Emerging growth company ¨

If an emerging growth company that prepares its financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨

#### FORM 40-F

#### Principal Documents
The following documents, filed as Exhibits 99.1 through 99.2 hereto, are hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 40-F:

### ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE
**Certifications and Disclosure Regarding Controls and Procedures**

| (a) | Certifications. See Exhibits 99.3, 99.4, 99.5 and 99.6 to this Annual Report on Form 40-F. |

| (c) | Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 (1) Management of the registrant is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer and effected by the Board of Directors, management and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
 (2) Management assessed the effectiveness of the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on the criteria set forth in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 (3) Based on this assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2017, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting was effective. Also, management determined that there were no material weaknesses in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 (4) Deloitte LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the registrant’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, has issued its opinion on the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting (the “Attestation Report”).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

| (d) | Attestation Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. The Attestation Report is included in Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto, which is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 40-F. |

#### Notices Pursuant to Regulation BTR
None.

#### Audit Committee Financial Experts
The registrant’s board of directors has determined that Mr. Marcel R. Coutu who is a member of the registrant’s audit committee, qualifies as an “audit committee financial expert” (as such term is defined in paragraph 8 of General Instruction B in Form 40-F) and is “independent” (as such term is defined in the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (the “ NYSE ”), in accordance with the director independence standards of the NYSE.

#### Code of Ethics
The registrant has adopted a “code of ethics” (as that term is defined in paragraph 9(b) of General Instruction B in Form 40-F), which it refers to as its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions.

The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which complies with the requirements of the NYSE, is available for viewing on the registrant’s website at www.brookfield.com at Corporate Governance/Governance Documents and is available in print to any shareholder who requests it. Requests for copies of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics should be made by contacting: Corporate Secretary, Brookfield Asset Management Inc., Suite 300, Brookfield Place, 181 Bay Street, P.O. Box 762, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5J 2T3, Telephone: 416-363-9491. Alternatively, requests may be sent by email to inquiries@brookfield.com .

All amendments to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and all waivers of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics with respect to any of the directors, officers and employees covered by it, have been and will be posted promptly on the registrant’s website.

#### Principal Accountant Fees and Services
The information required is included under the heading “Principal Accountant Fees and Services” in the Audit Committee Information section of the registrant’s Annual Information Form for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 40-F.

Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures

The information required is included under the heading “Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures” in the Audit Committee Information section of the registrant’s Annual Information Form for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 40-F.

#### Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
The registrant does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.

#### Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations
The information required is included under the heading “Contractual Obligations” in Part 4 – Capitalization, in the registrant’s MD&A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 40-F.

#### Identification of the Audit Committee
The registrant has a separately designated standing audit committee established in accordance with section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Exchange Act. The members of the audit committee are: Marcel R. Coutu, who is the committee’s Chair, M. Elyse Allan and Angela F. Braly, each of whom is “independent” (as such term is defined in the rules of the NYSE).

#### Mine Safety Disclosure
Not applicable.

### DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO THE

### REQUIREMENTS OF THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

#### Independence of Directors
**The registrant’s board of directors has determined that 10 of the registrant’s 16 directors, comprising a majority of the board, are “independent directors,” as that term is defined in the rules of the NYSE, and that none of these 10 directors has a material relationship with the registrant which would impair his independence from management or otherwise compromise his ability to act as an independent director.

The directors who have been determined to be independent on this basis are: M. Elyse Allan, Angela F. Braly, Marcel R. Coutu, Maureen Kempston Darkes, Murilo Ferreira, The Hon. Frank J. McKenna, Rafael Miranda, Youssef A. Nasr, Seek Ngee Huat and Diana L. Taylor.

Presiding Director at Meetings of Independent Directors

The registrant schedules regular meetings in which the registrant’s independent directors meet without the participation of management and non-independent directors. The Hon. Frank J. McKenna, the chair of the board of directors, serves as the chair at such sessions (the “ Chair ”).**

#### Communication with Independent Directors
Shareholders may send communications to the registrant’s independent directors by contacting the Chair, c/o Corporate Secretary, Brookfield Asset Management Inc., Suite 300, Brookfield Place, 181 Bay Street, P.O. Box 762, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5J 2T3, Telephone: (416) 363-9491. Alternatively, communications may be sent by e-mail to inquiries@brookfield.com . Communications will be referred to the Chair for appropriate action. The status of all outstanding concerns addressed to the Chair will be reported to the board of directors as appropriate.

#### Corporate Governance Guidelines
The rules of the NYSE require listed companies to adopt and disclose a set of corporate governance guidelines with respect to specified topics. Such guidelines are required to be posted on the listed company’s website. The registrant operates under corporate governance principles that are consistent with the requirements of the NYSE rules, and which are summarized under the heading “Statement of Corporate Governance Practices” in the registrant’s latest Management Information Circular available for viewing on the registrant’s web site at www.brookfield.com under Corporate Governance/Governance Documents.

#### Board and Committee Charters
The charter of the registrant’s board of directors is set out in Appendix A to the registrant’s latest Management Information Circular. The charter of the registrant’s audit committee is set out in Appendix C of the Registrant’s Annual Information Form for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.

These documents are available for viewing on the registrant’s web site at www.brookfield.com under Corporate Governance/ Governance Documents.

The charters of the registrant’s board of directors, audit committee, management resources and compensation committee, governance and nominating committee and risk management committee are each available for viewing on the registrant’s web site at www.brookfield.com under Corporate Governance/Governance Documents and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Requests for copies of these documents should be made by contacting: Corporate Secretary, Brookfield Asset Management Inc., Suite 300, Brookfield Place, 181 Bay Street, P.O. Box 762, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5J 2T3, Telephone: (416) 363-9491. Alternatively, requests may be sent by email to inquiries@brookfield.com .

### UNDERTAKING AND CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS
| A. | Undertaking. |

The registrant undertakes to make available, in person or by telephone, representatives to respond to inquiries made by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “ Commission ”) staff, and to furnish promptly, when requested to do so by the Commission staff, information relating to: the securities registered pursuant to Form 40-F; the securities in relation to which the obligation to file an annual report on Form 40-F arises; or transactions in said securities.

| B. | Consent to Service of Process. |

The Company has previously filed a Form F-X in connection with the class of securities in relation to which the obligation to file this report arises.

Any change to the name or address of the agent for service of process of the registrant shall be communicated promptly to the Commission by an amendment to the Form F-X referencing the file number of the registrant.

### SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant certifies that it meets all of the requirements for filing on Form 40-F and has duly caused this annual report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on April 2, 2018 .

| BROOKFIELD ASSET MANAGEMENT INC. |     |                                                     |
| By:                              |     | /s/ Brian D. Lawson                                 |
| Name:                            |     | Brian D. Lawson                                     |
| Title:                           |     | Senior Managing Partner and Chief Financial Officer |

### EXHIBIT INDEX
| Exhibit 
 99.1    
 99.2    |     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 Annual Information Form for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, and the Attestation Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm |
|:--------|:----|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 99.3    |     | Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934                                                                                                                                                   |
| 99.4    |     | Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934                                                                                                                                                   |
| 99.5    |     | Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code                                                                         |
| 99.6    |     | Certification of Chief Financial Officer Form pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code                                                                    |
| 99.7    |     | Consent of Deloitte LLP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |